ants live almost everywhere the water
falling in this mangrove swamp in
Australia exposes in the wet mud and
ants nest every time the tide recedes
the ants must repair any damage the
water may have caused collapsed
entrances must be reopened and blocked
tunnels clear
now that the mudflats are exposed the
ants hurried to collect what food the
tide might have delivered but there are
still some stretches of water to be
crossed the surface tension of the
mortar supports them as they dance
across it sometimes they actually swim
and there has indeed been a new delivery
of food
but the tide has also created a problem
it has washed away the chemical trails
that mark the frontiers of their
territory so there's now no clear
boundary between them and ants belonging
to a neighboring colony the
interrogation of a stranger is complex
and detailed who are you
where'd you come from answers are
readily given and accepting
but every now and then they have to
fight to settle a question
they may have sorted out their
disagreement but now there is a bigger
threat to both of them the tide is
turning again they must get back to the
safety of their nests while the tide has
been out larvae and pupae have been
moved around the nest to keep them at
the temperature needed for their proper
development now they must be moved again
for the nest is not watertight many of
the tunnels and chambers are flooded
with every time there's no time to waste
but the water doesn't reach every part
of the nest for the ants of constructed
bell-shaped chambers that trap pockets
of air and so create refuges where the
adults are the young can sit out the
high tide
you